>> Maximiliano Firtman: Let's
get deeper into Display modes.
So far we've used one display standalone
but actually, there are more in the spec.
The first one and actually the default
value is actually browser,
which means you can create a manifest and
specify display browser.
That means you don't want to be a PWA,
you just wanna provide
some meta data such as the theme color and
the icon in a manifest.
But if the user is adding
that to the home screen,
you wanna a shortcut to the browser.
That's what you're saying, okay?
So that's not for PWAs.
Standalone, it's the most common value,
but there are more.
We have fullscreen, and
I will show you the difference here.
Actually, fullscreen today is
Android compatible only, so
it works only on Android.
On all the rest and typically there is, we
have like a chain here, a fallback chain.
So if fullscreen is not available,
typically falls back to standalone.
Minimal-ui, I will show you,
you will understand this in a sec
when you see some examples.
Minimal-ui fall backs to browser,
so be careful with that.
That means that, if you use minimal-ui and
a browser is not supporting that
Display mode,
the browser will fall back to browser.
So it's not gonna be a standalone PWA.
And actually, those are the four
initial Display modes in the spec.
But on a separate spec, so
on most modern API's to be honest,
it typically is Chromium-based only and
desktop only.
We have tabbed mode, and I will show you
an example in a sec of what that means.
And window-controls-overlay there is
I know, sounds like a large name.
So let's see some examples
to understand what they are.
For backward compatibility,
the problem is that, for example,
if I wanna use one of these new ones
like tabbed or window-controls-overlay,
they are not available on mobile.
They're not available on iOS.
So if I use one of those Display mode,
we have a problem.
Typically, it will fall back to browser so
then we don't have a PWA.
So that because of that, the standard
created another property known as
display_override that
receives an array collection.
So then the browser will
start with display_override,
it will try to match those Display modes.
If they don't support those Display mode,
they will fall back to
the display property, okay?
It's kind of a weird way
of solving the problem but
at least with this they are offering
a solution that works everywhere.
Of course,
iOS will ignore display_override, so
it will not use a new display mode.
So let's try to understand this.
The Standalone mode is the one
that we have already checked.
So you just get a window for
you on macOS, on Windows,
I think the other one is Windows 10,
Windows 7, or Linux.
You understood the idea, okay?
You get a Standalone mode,
that's actually pretty straightforward.
Now, Minimal UI.
For example, Minimal UI,
this is YouTube music that, by the way,
it's a Desktop PWA.
It's a good one.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: I
can demo it here.
I have it here, YouTube Music.
It's using responsive design to
change the UI based on the size.
So it goes to a small widget
when it's small and
YouTube Music is using this Minimal UI.
How do I know that?
Because I have a Minimal UI
from the browser.
For example, the back button,
the refresh button.
So that's a Minimal UI.
So you have within the title bar
a Minimal UI for browsing, okay?
Tabbed mode,
this is the Desktop Tabbed mode.
But basically, you can create tabs.
Like if you have word or something like
that so you can create different windows,
so different navigation context with tabs.
So it's kind of you have your own
customized Chrome if you want, okay?
And Window Controls Overlay, will let
you render content in the title bar.
So instead of letting
the iOS render in the title,
you can use HTML and
CSS to render content directly there.
So you can use the title bar for
adding controls or do wherever you want.
>> Speaker 2: I just wanna confirm
Windows in this space it's not
the proprietary company.
It's just using the control, right?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah, yeah,
in this case it's capitalized
because it has the name of WCO.
That's how we know that, but
it's not Windows, the operating system.
Actually, that's a Mac screen.
So it works on Desktop macOS,
Linux, Chromebooks,
Windows as well with Chrome, okay?
So basically, you change the display, and
you get a different experience for
the Window, okay?
So now let's go on mobile.
On iOS and iPadOS we only have Standalone.
So that's the only one that is supported,
okay?
Where you have a Fullscreen, but
the status bar is always there, okay?
And it looks like an app,
we have already seen that.
Android support a Standalone is
the one that we have already seen, so
we can see the status bar that
is themed with our color.
It also appears as any
other app in the launcher.
It supports Minimal UI Android.
When you are using Minimal UI,
this is how it's going to look like.
So it's also kind of a Standalone,
but you have a minimal
browsing bar that is rendering your title,
your domain.
Also includes a menu, a contextual menu,
where you can actually see,
for example, information.
The information will give you
the SSL certificate, for example.
Fullscreen will give
you 100% of the screen
removing the status bar
as well on Android only.
So all the Display modes
on Android look like this,
Standalone, Minimal UI, and Fullscreen.
Remember, you just change the value of
the property display in your manifest.
That's all you need, okay?
Any questions?
>> Speaker 3: Can you do media queries to
tell what kind of device you're using?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yes, you can.
Yeah, but kind of,
what do you mean by kind of device?
>> Speaker 3: iPhone, Android.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, no, no,
no, I was expecting another question.
No, you cannot do media queries.
What you want is device detection.
For using device detection,
there are tricks.
So you can use tricks,
read the User-Agent and
try to guess if it's iPhone,
Android or something like that.
The only actual way to do
that professionally and
having more certainty about what's going
on there is using a device library.
Not sure if you've heard about that.
There are one device library,
let me show you that.
One device library that is actually pretty
old, but I mean, it has been for a while.
It's not an old library, it's WURFL.js.
The ScientiaMobile is
the company behind it.
There is a free version I think,
where you can have a JavaScript version,
device detection or server side.
So WURFL.js will use different
tricks heuristics to
actually tell you where you are.
So the kind of device that you are and
how it works.
It will give you the device name,
the factor,
and even some properties about the device,
okay?
So you need something like this.
But for some basic behavior,
so what's a use case?
So what are you thinking?
>> Speaker 3: I'm thinking for where you
tell someone to how to install the PWA.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay,
how to install, okay?
So let's say that for the Installation,
maybe iPhone is kind of the only
one that is different, also macOS.
For that it's not like you
wanna detect which device,
you wanna detect if it's iPhone or
not, okay?
And that's simple.
There is a trick,
let me give you a trick really quickly.
There is a trick.
The trick is using there is
a property it's window.standalone.
Window.standalone, it's undefined here.
It's not part of the DOM API,
so it's not there.
But it's something that was created
in the Steve Jobs era for
Safari before the PWA
standards were created, okay?
So that property is a boolean property
when it's not undefined, that will tell
you if you are Fullscreen app,
Standalone app or not, but only on iOS.
So, for example,
if I'm here in the simulator well,
I will do a spoiler of what's next.
Can I open an inspector on the simulator?
Well, let me answer the question quickly,
because it's a spoiler, the answer is yes.
To answer the question,
the simplest way to see if
it's an iOS device or not,
is navigator.standalone.
Navigator.standalone in Chrome
is giving me undefined,
because It's not part of the DOM API,
it's not standard.
But if I'm going back to iOS and
I'm here connected to,
we'll see how to connect this
inspector to my PWA in a second.
From here, if I try navigator.standalone,
it gives me true, okay?
And if I'm in the browser,
it will give me false.
So Safari in the browser
will give you false.
Safari in a PWA will give you true.
Other browsers will give you undefined.
So it's a quick way to know
if it's Safari or not.
Quick and dirty, by the way, right?
It's a hack, but it is what it is.
>> Speaker 4: How would you handle if
you're trying to figure out within
the WebView?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, so if you
wanna know if it's in the WebView, well,
you may not be able to use this
to see if you're in a WebView.
So you wanna know if you're in Facebook,
for example, on TikTok,
or something like that.
The way to detect that is
through the user agent.
So when you are in TikTok, actually,
if you try to Google that,
we should be able to get an answer
like TikTok WebView user agent.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: We
should find the user agent, so
actually they typically
are something here.
It's the BytedanceWebview.
So then you use navigator.useragent, and
you check if the user agent
contains BytedanceWebview,
that's a substring within that string,
it will tell you that you're inside TikTok.
The problem is that
there is no general way.
So each one will have its own user agent.
So Instagram has its own string.
So it depends on the case, okay?
You need to find and search that manually.
If not, we go back to
the answer of a device library.
WURFL will actually tell you.
They have all the database and
all the heuristic structure
to give you the right answer.